Q1. Do you think this current system provides adequate accountability around short term rentals in San Francisco?


I believe that the airbnb platform could hold more accountability with their business. Though the current system for managing short-term rentals have multiple steps to prevent commercial operators from buying up apartment buildings and turning them into individual hotel rooms, the steps aren’t effective in real practice. With thousands of listings on Airbnb, the city relies on a complaint-based system to regulate them. This puts the burden to the residents on neighborhoods, which can lead to community friction and enforcement blind spots. Also, while the law requires hosts to live in their units for at least 275 nights per year, proving that a host has actually lived those days is legally and logistically difficult. Finally, for luxury, high-revenue units, the fines for breaking the law can be viewed simply as an overhead cost. 
From the perspective of the Software Engineering (SWE) Code of Ethics, software engineers developing these rental platforms and city tracking systems have an ethical obligation to act consistently with the public interest. In particular, software engineers should
1.01. Accept full responsibility for their own work. 
1.02. Moderate the interests of the software engineer, the employer, the client and the users with the public good.
This means that the engineers should design systems that do not just "allow" for registration but actively block non-compliant activity through automated cross-referencing with city tax and residency databases.
With the cooperation of Airbnb and its software engineers,the city could implement a Mandatory Real-Time API. Instead of periodic data dumps or subpoenas, platforms would be required to provide the office with a live feed of booking data (which would be anonymized for guest privacy). This would allow the city to use automated scripts to detect when a unit has exceeded its 90-day unhosted limit or when a single host is operating multiple properties across the city, improving the efficiency of the current manual investigation process.
________________


Q2. Legality of Web Scraping 
When discussing the legality of Web Scraping, I believe the most critical factor to consider is the accessibility and usage of the data being scraped. Currently, the major dividing line is whether the data being scraped is publicly available or behind a gate, like a login or paywall. Under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA), courts have increasingly ruled that you cannot access without authorization a website that does not require authorization in the first place. This was further supported by cases like hiQ Labs v. LinkedIn, where the Ninth Circuit reaffirmed that scraping publicly accessible information generally does not violate the CFAA. However, while scraping public data might not be a crime under the CFAA, it can still lead to other types of violation, such as Copyright Infringement or Trespass to Chattels(which happens when your scraping significantly slows down the website's servers). Specifically, Web Scraping datasets should be done carefully and is a problem on the line. Even though the individual data are facts that cannot be stolen, the specific selection, structure,organization of a database can be an intellectual property. 
________________
Q3.
Acknowledging principle 8 “promote an ethical approach to the practice of the profession” of SWE Code of Ethics, we could set the following guidelines when web scraping. 
1. Protecting Privacy
Users posting information on a public platform doesn't mean they consented to that data being scraped, aggregated, and sold. A person posting a photo on Instagram expects their friends (or even the public) to see it, but they do not necessarily expect that photo to be scraped by a company to build a permanent, searchable facial recognition profile for law enforcement.
2. Consider the risk of aggregated data and Public Interest
Although data was anonymized, when they are combined and create multi-factor data sets, it can have significant power and risks. The Cambridge Analytica scandal showed how likes and basic profile data, when scraped and combined with psychological modeling, could be used to micro-target and manipulate voters. Software engineers should assess their scraping and usage of data, and stop their project if it fails the public interest test by contributing for predatory profit or for manipulation.